# Author

-   Name: Lê Thành Công
-   Domain: conglt

# Essay for FinTech from coursera

In the early years of the 21st century, information technology is constantly developing and continuously making great progress that in the 90s of the 20th century we could not imagine. Therefore, IT has been applied in all areas of life such as education, health, military, economics and culture. In finance, FinTech is certainly a word that is no stranger to those who have been closely monitoring the financial industry in recent years, which is often mentioned in conferences, meetings and even became a hot topic for discussion at the banquet table.
Since the wave of startups focusing on the technology field in finance emerged after the 2008 crisis, "FinTech" has become a representative for a digital revolution that can completely change the way business working of financial industry.


Now, we begin to analyze the phrase "FinTech", it consists of Fin (Financial) and Tech (Technology). Sometimes we're confused to differentiate between FinTech and TechFin. FinTech is basically financial institutions using technology to improve their processes. On the other hand, TechFin is technology institutions providing financial services such as Alibaba, Alipay, Tencent, etc. Frankly, there is no specific definition of FinTech because it will be different for different perspectives. Its definition depends on your perspectives which can be traditional large financial firms, startup & FinTech entrepreneurs, investors or consumers. When you look at the perspective of the large firms, and then conclude that FinTech is not new because the firms have existed for a long time and they have been using technology and finance for more than 100 years. For instance, in the 80s, ATM was said to be the best FinTech technology ever developed by Paul Volcker. Of course, ATM is very common at the present. However, the technology today is very different from that in the past, it's much faster and smarter. Therefore, there are so many oppotunities for startups and entrepreneurs to build from innovations that apply technology to get more profit in financial industry. Next, from the perspective of investors, this is a roller coaster because they enjoy ups and downs of crypto market. Finally, as a customer perspective, FinTech is something can help customers do the tasks more convenient, faster, easier. Especially, you do not need to go to the ATM to get money, you only need a smartphone with a FinTech apps like ZaloPay and pay the bill with it so conveniently. As we can see that, defining FinTech is complex because it means different things to different people, so what you define it as depends on how you're approaching it.


FinTech has so many applications in financial industry, it focuses on 6 fields such as `lending and personal finance`, `crowdfunding & business financing`, `payments and retail transactions`, `equity, trading, and investment`, `cryptocurrencies`, and `banking infrastruture tool & logistics`. In lending and personal finance field, there are many services like Kabbage, Credit Karma, eLoan, Lending Club. For example, Kabbage is a small business lender that provides direct capital to companies through an automated loan platform, which combines machine learning, public data and other information to determine the trustworthiness of small businesses. In addition, Lending Club is the first peer-to-peer lending institution to list shares on the stock market and provide trading loans on the secondary market. Peer-to-peer lending means that excess people and people in need of money are connected directly without going through the bank, we can see that is so convenient, apparently peer-to-peer lending become popular, and Lending Club is the most famous one. The next one is crowdfunding & business financing, crowdfunding is a form of funding for a project or joint venture by increasing donations from a large number of participants, often via the internet. Crowdfunding provides an opportunity for entrepreneurs to raise a large amount of capital from the community, or more specifically, anyone with money can invest. One of the most famous crowdfunding firms is Kickstarter, it is known as a crowdfunding company, allowing developers, businesses, and creators the ability to bring their projects to raise capital from ordinary consumers on the internet. This method is very different from the classical model of capital mobilization, such as having to set up a project, economic justification to convince investors. Kickstarter's model introduces investment projects directly to consumers and mobilizes capital directly from "future customers" of this project. With payments and retail transactions, we can mention e-wallet which is an electronic account, it acts as a means of online payment for customers, helping customers pay expenses, send money and receive money via the Internet quickly. Paypal is one of the most famous e-wallets accounting for a large amount of total payment value through smartphone in the world. The next one is equity, trading, and investment, a representative for this field is Robinhood. Created in 2013, Robinhood is a mobile application that allows individuals to invest in publicly listed companies and exchange-traded funds on U.S exchanges without brokerage fee. Referring to FinTech, it is impossible not to mention cryptocurrencies, everyone knows Bitcoin as one of the hottest 'keywords' in the financial industry today. Bitcoin can be exchanged directly with Internet-connected devices without going through an intermediary financial institution. Bitcoin behaves differently than typical currencies: there is no central bank that manages it and the system operates on a peer-to-peer network protocol on the Internet. Last but not least, FinTech is more than just financial services, Ant financial which operates Alipay and Sesame Credit & Yu'e Bao has used Blockchain for logistics to support a huge amount of Alibaba's transactions. Ant financial is the largest valuation FinTech company worldwide and is one of the factor helping China to be a leading nation of FinTech. To wrap up, we can see that FinTech has an extremely wide range of applications in financial industry.


To achieve FinTech achievements requires the underlying technologies behind the applications above. There are 5 main technologies which consist of `identity, privacy, and anonymity`, `blockchain and encryption`, `big data and analytics`, `AI, DSS, and Automation`, `smartphones and customer tech`. Over the past 10 years, information technology has grown unbelievably by leaps and bounds, i remember when i was a kid, a phone with a call function was a luxury, but now smartphones with hundreds of features have become popular. Identity technology is indispensable for FinTech today because authentication and anti-phishing requirements are extremely important at the moment. There are many methods of identity like password, facial recognition, biometrics, secure crypto id, etc. Sometimes we need to do transactions anonymous in intrusted environment, we can use Bitcoin or other cryptocurrencies to create the trust for the transaction, which is based on blockchain and encryption technology. Besides, Blockchain has other applications, especially in smart contracts. The next one is big data and analytics, this technology can help us to collect and analyze data to make predictions, possible predictions about user behavior to make appropriate business strategies, predictions about the stock market to make decisions to buy or sell. With AI, DSS, and Automation, we need to automate our jobs and make them quick, easy and effortless. An important application of AI in FinTech is customer care by robots or chatbots, they can serve customer 24/7 and make them feel satisfied instead of waiting so long to be served by human. The last tech is smartphones which is one of the most important technologies to enable the evolution of FinTech. The first Iphone was introduced by Apple in 2007, and then the explosion of applications from the world's two largest mobile operating systems, iOS and Android, has made FinTech quick and easy to use. We can see that the more tech is improved, the more popular and smarter FinTech is.


FinTech's diverse applications are impacting almost every field of the financial industry, such as deposits, payments, insurance, securities, credit, risk management. In addition, FinTech also affects the market structure, product structure, development strategy and all business aspects of the banking and financial system. Firstly, FinTech can change the distribution channel and traditional financial services, especially banking services. For instance, there are some trends which are sales on the Internet, mobile banking, tablet banking, social networks, digital banking development, paperless transactions in the recent year. Secondly, the market share of banks in general and financial institutions in particular tends to decrease, 'share' to FinTech companies. For example, banks are completely out of place in the Bitcoin cryptocurrency service, a new monetary system that is growing globally. Thirdly, the labor market in the field of finance and banking will also change, technology can replace the large number of employees of banks, financial institutions, securities companies, insurance. However, the demand for high quality human resources will increase and the requirement is good at both financial and information technology expertise. Finally, FinTech can make these global trends: FinTech startup popping up, merger of firms, diversification and growth cryptocurrencies,   decreasing regulation of large banks, increase regulation of cryptocurrencies, AI and Big Data improvements, etc. To wrap up, FinTech is gradually becoming popular, the most important thing is that you need to adapt to the current trend in the world.

FinTech's influence is becoming stronger globally, as in Vietnam. FinTech in Vietnam appeared late but developed quickly. It was not until 2015 that FinTech startups flourished in the Vietnamese market. However, compared to other countries in the region, this figure is very modest. For instance, Singapore had about 490-500 FinTech companies in 2017-2018. Experts from Solidiance predict, in 2020, FinTech Vietnam market will reach at 7.8 billion USD. Indeed, FinTech in Vietnam is really booming with the appearance of a series of electronic wallets such as Momo, ZaloPay, VnPay, AirPay, VinID, ViettelPay. In these e-wallets, Momo is the startup in top 100th of FinTech companies in the world in 3/2018. Besides, Vietnam also has Money Lover which is the world's number 1 application for money management. Some companies are trying to apply AI and Data science to their apps and services to improve performance and convenience for users. Frankly, FinTech's rapid growth is driven by the popularity of smartphones. In 2017, 84% of mobile phone users in Vietnam used smartphones. E-payment applications can attract customers who have never had access to the traditional banking system, paving the way for a cashless or less dependent society. In that society, you only need a smartphone or any wearable devices for all activities related to banking, payments or something else like that. Vietnam's FinTech has been developed day by day to catch up and surpass other countries in the region.

In conclusion, FinTech is currently a wave of not only great benefits but also challenges. To take advantage of this wave, banks have to find ways to be more customer-oriented. The smarter banks will use this major shift as an excuse to improve the experience of their customers. On the other hand, FinTech startups are in a race, they need to go faster than the banks and create a trend to change the behavior of customer as they plan. Other investors shouldn’t fall into the hype trap because the financial industry always changes. The last is customers who should balance the costs and benefits of switching new products because there are so many choices and we can not know which is the best choice in the future. Just be smart!